>> Steve Kinney: So let's handle the kind
of terminology part of the show.
What even is a compiler, right?
The kind of like simple answer,
it is something that turns a higher-level
language into a lower-level language.
I put an asterisk there cuz I don't know,
we know that a lot of languages these
days compile to what, JavaScript, right?
It'll be interesting to see how much
of that changes to WebAssembly and
stuff along those lines.
But right now, many, many, many languages,
even JavaScript is effectively
compiled to JavaScript, right?
As kind of the lingua franca of
the browser, and the only game in town.
So yeah, it could be a higher-level
language to a lower-level language.
But all things considered, JavaScript
is a fairly high-level language, right?
But ReasonML, Elm, CoffeeScript,
right, those are all languages that
kind of go from one kind of
browser-based language to another.
And at some point, even JavaScript,
right, is effectively,
that parser and
compiler is written in C++, right?
And so it's just from one language to
another language in a lot of cases.
Source code is meant to be human readable,
right?
And so it's the compiler's job
to figure that out, right?
And so there's a lot of languages,
like this lovely one here whose name I
won't mention cuz it has a bad word in it.
Mark told me I was allowed to use
the word, but I'm not going to [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: Brain f.
>> Steve Kinney: Brain f, so yeah, this
kind of breaks the rule of a high-level
language into a lower-level language.
It's basically shifting
bits around to do things.
This console logs hello world,
in case you're wondering.
And yes, I did spend the time
to pull it into a repl,
transpile it into this to make this slide,
you're welcome.
So yeah, this kinda breaks the role
of a higher-level language that gets
transpiled into a lower-level language
because it's kinda the opposite, but
I think it makes a general point.
So really, a compiler is just a bunch
of smaller programs that are running.
We're gonna actually play
with both a little bit.
We're gonna stick one toe into
playing around with compilers.
We'll stick one toe into playing
around with an interpreter, right,
the thing that actually runs our code.
We're gonna build a repl, we'll build
something that you can just run a command
line tool and evaluate the code.
We'll also talk a little bit about like
pulling apart an AST, rearranging it so
we can just hand it off to Babel and
turn it into JavaScript.
Right, so we're kind of gonna
have our cake and eat it too,
and have one foot in both worlds here.
But the parts of a compiler, effectively,
you've got parsing, transformation, and
generation, right?
Parsing is, your source code,
at the end of the day,
is just a big old string of text, [LAUGH]
that you could read off the file system
you can pull in from the network,
so on and so forth.
And you've got to make some
kind of sense of that, right?
And parsing, we'll see,
has effectively two parts, right?
First of all, breaking it into
what we call tokens, right,
the little tiny pieces,
what is a word, okay, that's a for,
that's an if, right, so
on and so forth, right?
And then once we have all those little
tokens, right, then we can go ahead and
figure out, all right,
what dpes it all mean, right, so
there's kinda two stages there.
Once we've figured out what the code is
and what it means, to get it to that,
whether it's a lower-level language or,
in Brain f's case, a higher-level one,
right, we have to go and
transform it into that target, right?
And that could be JavaScript,
you could also target LLVM and
compile to machine code or
even web assembly through that, right?
You can target the JVM if you want, right?
There's a bunch of different options
that you can kind of look at.
And then finally, generating that code,
once we've kind of taken the general,
when we parse, we're trying to figure
out what the code means in our language.
And when we're transforming it, we're
trying to figure out how to put that in
the logic that the target
language can understand.
And then we kind of generate
that language out, right?
And what we're gonna do in this course
is effectively take one or two small,
little examples, and
basically use it so that we
can basically turn the tree into a tree
that Babel's generator just understands.
And we see JavaScript
spit out the other side.
Right, we'll just do it with
effectively our own syntax into just
traditional function calls, but
I think it'll kind of show how it works.
Also talk a little bit about
an interpreter, right,
interpreter isn't
necessarily going ahead and
turning it into different source code,
it's actually running it, right?
And we will leverage JavaScript
to make that happen, right?
We're not gonna have to implement
the idea of an array ourself or
anything along those lines.
But we'll have the ability
to kind of take code and
execute it by leveraging another platform,
right?